== Rometica - The Math Puzzle Game, by Greg Barozzi Twitter: @glbarozzi


=== Why another math game?
Rometica is a whole learning project. The playability of the game allows my son to develop and hone his math skills. I wanted the game to be fun and replayable, and I feel that I have achieved that. In addition (eww, puns), I wanted to try my hand at developing a Ruby app using the Rails MVC framework. 
I feel that the game is a success on both fronts. Even though this is a small application, I was able to work my way into a comfort zone with the standard components of a Rails app and get a good feel for the conventions used in the layout, development, and deployment of a complete web app in Rails.

=== How to Play: Arithmetic (Green Rometica)
Select the two numbered tiles that, when added together, equal a third numbered tile. 

=== How to Play: Multiplication (Red Rometica)
Select the two numbered tiles that, when multiplied together, equal a third numbered tile.

=== Under the Hood:
Rometica started by using database tables populated with arrays of numbers that mt with the constraints to allow each tile to have only one solution. When a game was loaded in the browser, a tile would be selected at random and the order shuffled in order to enhance replayability. By pre-populating a table with acceptable numbered tuples, I was able to achieve a (very) significant performance over generating random lists of acceptable numbers on each page-load. Because of this, the most complicated code in this application resides in the seeds.rb file used to populate the DB.

After the initial successfull dploymnt, I installed the New Relic gem ad analyzed Romtica's performance. What I learned was that despite using a very simple query, database access made up most of the load time. I decided to make an improvement in performance by hard-coding the data into class methods associated with my models which effectivly eliminates DB access. The code to extract the data from the DB and format it can be found in the db_digger.rb.



=== Game Logic at runtime:
It’s just basic arithmetic. The key to each tile is stored in the DOM and the numbered tiles the player chooses are added together and compared against the key by JQuery. 






